>> David Khourshid: Let's
jump into the exercise.
So this is actually going to
be a pretty fun exercise.
We have a different part
of the application here.
Oops.
There we go.
So if you go to
the normalization exercise now,
you're going to see somewhere where
a user can enter their travel itinerary.
And so we're using a reducer for this.
You could add a destination.
So let's say that you're going to Osaka.
You want to, I don't know, eat sushi and
see the ocean, I don't know.
And then let's say that you have
another destination like Tokyo,
where you want to visit team labs and
eat more sushi,
whatever there is to do in Japan.
And this is nested data.
So you have this, you have destinations,
and so we have multiple.
And then you have to do items in
each of those destinations for
the travel itinerary.
But what we really want to do is
simplify how all of this works so
that we don't have to go deeply into
the destination and then find the to do
item so that we could do things like
delete it and things like that.
So looking back at the page,
we see that we have a destination
within the array of todo items.
And then we have our to
do items over there.
And our goal is to simply normalize
that data so that it's not nested.
And if you want some fun
state challenges too,
then you could do things like
focusing the destination input.
So, for example,
if I add a new destination, well,
it already works like that, but
you could work on, for example,
if you say something and then you press
add, it should focus back on that field.
It's a fun exercise.
And also we're going to be taking a look
as a bonus at implementing undo and
redo and just seeing how that works,
because I think that that is a very
advanced but
important state management skill to learn.
>> David Khourshid: All right,
let's normalize some data.
So again,
we have to do item being nested inside
of destinations under this TO DOS array.
And we have all of our
destinations in here.
So I'm going to be like a broken record.
We're doing things side by side without.
Without deleting code first.
So we are going to put
our TODOS in to do item.
And we're also going to be adding
another bit of information.
We're going to be giving a relation for
what destination it belongs to.
Now, immediately you're going to see some
red, which is great because the red really
helps us out and
tells us you updated this.
So now you need to, you know,
make sure that everything is updated.
So let's say const.
New to do.
Oops, not you new TODOS.
And we're going to give it that
random id the text, but we're also
going to give it the action.destination
ID, which we already have.
So we could pass in that new TODO
here just to make typescript happy.
But what we're also going to do is we're
going to add this to the TODOS array.
So we're going to just push it here.
By the way,
I really like doing state TODOS.
Concat.
It's up to you.
You could do that.
You could do the spread operator.
I don't think it really matters.
All right, and then there is one
more red part over here where we
need to add that array of TODOS.
So are we done?
Not exactly yet.
So we have almost normalized our data,
but we still have this array of TODOS.
So we'll go ahead and comments that out
and then we could just remove that.
Let's see,
there's some other red over here.
So this one,
we actually don't need this anymore.
And this is one of
the main points of this,
where we don't really need to keep
around this boilerplate code for
going deeply into a structure, because,
yeah, we could just delete that code.
So same thing over here,
we're going to filter the TODOS and
this becomes a less expensive operation.
You could do even further
normalization by using an object
instead of an array,
where the object keys are the IDs.
So this is a form of normalization,
but again, you could go further, and
it's actually much faster if
you use an object technically,
because it's an O of one operation
versus an O of N operation.
But just to make things simple,
I like keeping it as an array and
because that also preserves
the order of the items too.
So that's one of the trade
offs that you have to think of
when you're deciding to normalize
via an object or an array.
And there's also one more hidden
thing over here, which is this.
When you delete a destination,
now you also have to filter through
the TODOS and you have to make sure that
any TODOS that are related to that
destination are gone as well.
So I mean, they're still going to be
invisible because you're deleting
the destination so
they don't show up in the ui.
But it's just nice to do.
And especially if you're
syncing with a server,
you don't want to have those impossible
states of orphans to do items that
are trying to relate to
a destination that doesn't exist.
All right, so now this code is
going to become a lot simpler.
We have our destinations over
here that come from the state.
So now we could just read the to dos and
actually,
we might need to do something
a little bit different here.
So we split screen this.
We need to split this out
into its own components.
And here's the way I like to do this.
It's actually pretty common in React apps,
especially big ones, where it's like,
okay, I'm just going to map through
values, and then I'm going to use this
convenient inline function to
just put everything in there.
And then you realize that
that gets pretty big,
and then you have to use a hook for
something.
So then it becomes a little bit annoying,
the fact that you inlined
all of this stuff.
And so, that's why I do recommend
just creating individual components
whenever it's feasible.
But, sometimes it's not.
And we could just create a.
We could refactor.
Anyway, so
let's make a function destination and
we're going to have the destination,
and then we're just going to
return everything inside that card,
unless it doesn't let us.
There we go.
And then we're going
to see a bunch of red.
[COUGH] So this is another
important thing to talk about.
When we had it inline, we already
had dispatch and things like that.
So there's a couple of different
approaches for solving this.
We could either pass dispatch
directly in here if we wanted to, or
the other approaches,
we could abstract that away and
make this component truly standalone.
So we could say, for example.
Onupdate, destination, etc.
For simplicity, I'm just going
to pass in dispatch here, but
you could do whatever
approach works best for you.
So this dispatch we are going
to have action void and
then most everything should work fine.
So we will remove that for now.
Now we also need to grab the TODOS,
so we could pass that in through here and
then this is going to be
just our array of TODOS
that are related to that destination.
So now instead of destination
todos we would have TODOS length.
Instead of destination TODOS map,
we would just
map over the TODOS and so
now we can take this card and
we could replace it with our destination,
which is in here.
And then the TODOS are going to be
the TODOS where the todo destination
ID matches the destination ID.
Still getting an error here.
So let's figure out what's going,
we need a key.
Of course.
Another thing too,
always prefer to have a unique ID when
it comes to mapping over something.
I know we've all done the habit where
we use indexes and things like that,
but the most reliable thing
is going to be a key.
And so the reason why is that things can
change order and then the UI states.
So the natural DOM state of whatever
component is being worked on is
going to be completely lost.
So imagine you have, for example, a list
of TODOS, each of which has an input or
something, and you're typing somewhere and
then another TODOS is
prepended to the list.
Now, because that index is different,
React treats that TODOS item as
a completely different component and
so you're going to lose focus.
So that's why if you have the ID,
that won't happen because that ID
is going to stay exactly the same.
So that's another mini lesson there.
All right, so
everything mostly looks good.
We've normalized our data.
We no longer need those to.
There's another small thing
that I want to talk about.
In our TODO item, when we have
like a destination ID, like for
example, it's just a string over here and
we're just creating a TODO,
and we're passing in the destination ID,
absolutely nothing.
And this is really interesting,
nothing is stopping us from doing this or
even just doing like a TODO ID or
whatever.
So we could put anything invalid in there.
Are there any guardrails that can help us
just sort of prevent this anti pattern or
not really an anti pattern, but
just a potential for errors to happen?
The answer is yes, and it's by.
This is sort of an advanced
typescript technique.
It's called a branded type.
So it looks like this type brand B and
we're gonna do a simple version
where it's just a string and we have
this weird little object over here.
Basically this creates a special
type that says it is a string,
but it is a special kind of string.
So just to give you an idea,
we might have a destination ID and
we could give it the brand
of destination ID and
we can also have a TODO ID which we
could give the brand of TODO ID.
Functionally, these are strings.
They're going to work just like strings.
And as far as the runtime is concerned,
they are strings.
We're not adding any extra properties
to it or anything like that.
But here's the key, when we put this
in there and we put that branded type,
we immediately see red because it's like,
hey, we can't actually
guarantee that this action destination
ID is really a destination ID.
So now we have to enforce that upstream.
So we could say this should
be a destination ID and
now we're going to get
read somewhere else.
And so destination ID,
if we go to destination,
we could say every destination.
Wait, that's destination.
Let's call this destination card.
Okay, so destination where was,
nope, this is what happens when
I use the same name for things.
But anyway, so in the destination, we
could say that whatever ID is in here is
definitely a destination ID and whatever
ID is here is definitely a TODO ID.
And so when we're actually creating that,
we can coerce, for
example, this random UUID.
We could say this, just assume that
it is a destination ID because
we're creating it from scratch, so
we have full control over there.
So same thing over here,
we could coerce this
to be a todo ID and so
now when we're here.
All right, so
now let's try doing something bad.
Let's say we're updating the destination
and we do some junk over here.
It's not gonna yell at us
because that's still a string.
And so we need to change it
in a couple of other places.
But now we're going to see red and
it's going to be because we are not
using the correct branded type.
So, oops, so we could change that and
see that it's fixed.
So we have destination ID and
now everything is fine.
So, when we create a todo so over here,
we can be sure that we're not just
putting in any random destination ID,
but we're actually putting
in an actual destination ID.
So that's, yeah,
any questions on anything
I showed you there so far?
>> Speaker 2: Curious of so I've seen
something similar to the branded type,
and I've seen people like really
lean into enums to try and
avoid using strings anywhere
in the application.
So like for instance, on your types,
rather than using string add to do,
you could just do like an enumerate and
then have like a set of different actions,
would you say there is any drawback or
benefits to between the two?
>> David Khourshid: I think that there's
plus and minuses to both approaches.
Personally, when I'm
working on an application,
I will first start off
with just the strings,
just because I know that if I make a typo
here it's it's going to yell at me anyway.
And also,
I do still get autocompletes when I do.
Do that.
The downside though, for that, and this
is one of the benefits of using enums,
is that, you see,
I'm trying to rename this element and
it's saying, I cannot rename this element,
at least not at the moment.
Just because a string is a string, just
because it happens to be in an object,
doesn't mean that we could replace all
usages of the string with whatever we
decide to put there.
But if we use const enumeration,
action type, and
then we have something like this, and
then we replace this with action type,
dot, add destination,
then you know that then we could
actually change that, I believe.
No, you can't.
But I mean, you could change it here.
And also if you change this,
it doesn't matter because that
value is going to be the same.
And so that's why you're going to see red
there and it's going to be like, hey,
you should probably just do this.
So I do see the benefits of it.
I would say Enums and
TypeScript are a little bit messy.
If you are going to use enums just
because of the way they implemented it.
If you are, then I strongly recommend
using const enums just because I believe,
if I'm not mistaken, that they're just
the runtime values are just the strings.
It's not like some crazy enum object.
It's just going to be a string.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, well,
and I think with the enums,
if you are using it only in type
references, it's going to strip it.
The TypeScript compiler will
strip any of the enum types
if you don't use them as a value.
Whereas if you use them as a value,
then it will.
It has to force it as an object,
essentially.
>> David Khourshid: Right?
Yeah, I believe so.
But in this case, because we're,
in the actual code,
output is going to output as
these strings, literally.
So, yeah, but, yeah, so that,
that's actually a good example of,
like, if we go to finite solution,
over here we have this stuff.
So you could actually say flight status.
This could also be an enum too,
so const enum flightstatus.
And then you have idle
submitting error success.
And so instead of, for example,
checking if something is submitting,
like over here,
you could just use that enum.
And, and so
from what I've seen when working alone,
enums sort of get in the way because it's
a little bit more boilerplate to write.
But when you're working with a team, it's
actually pretty useful to have that enum
and sort of enforce that
with your entire team.
So I think I lean on the side of using
const enums over just plain strings.
But when you're starting out,
just start with the string and
then refactor to use that enum,
or let cursor do it for you.
>> Speaker 3: How do you decide on
the relations between the data types?
So, for example, you put an array
of destination IDs on the todos.
Is the reason you did that instead
of putting an array of to do IDs
on destinations?
Or is it pretty much the same?
>> David Khourshid: You mean
when we first had the state?
>> Speaker 3: When we were building
the one we were flattening it out.
>> David Khourshid: Right, so
the first one before the flattening.
And that's because a destination
can contain many TODOS and
the TODOS cannot contain
many destinations.
So it is a one way thing.
But I mean, it does get tricky.
So like for example, if you have,
if you have friends,
like you want some model friends,
like this friend has all these friends and
this friend has all those friends.
The friends can be friends of each other.
You have a many-to-many relationship.
It's like, okay, so
how do we represent that?
With the nested data structure,
it becomes a little bit tricky because
it's like which one is a child of which?
And then you have a lot
of data duplication.
Whereas if you have a flattened structure,
then you could just represent
the relationships like friend of or
just a separate, I hate to say join table,
but you know what I mean?
Like just somewhere where you're keeping
track of the relationships between those
different entities.